---
layout: post
title: Hamlet, First Quarto, 1603 (Huntington Shelfmark 69304)
last_modified_at: 1603-12-31
author: "William Shakespeare"
copyright: public-domain
tags: [hamlet, shakespeare, script]
locale: en-1500-1700
---
> Enter two Centinels.

1\. STand: who is that?

2\. Tis I.

1\. O you come most carefully vpon your watch,

2\. And if you meete Marcellus and Horatio,<br>
The partners of my watch, bid them make haste.

1\. I will: See who goes there.

> Enter Horatio and Marcellus.

Hor. Friends to this ground.

Mar. And leegemen to the Dane,<br>
O farewell honest souldier, who hath releeued you?

1\. Barnardo hath my place, giue you good night.

Mar. Holla, Barnardo.

2\. Say, is Horatio there?

Hor. A peece of him.

2\. Welcome Horatio, welcome good Marcellus.

Mar. What hath this thing appear'd againe to night.

2\. I haue seene nothing.

Mar. Horatio sayes tis but our fantasie,<br>
And wil not let beliefe take hold of him,<br>
Touching this dreaded sight twice seene by vs,<br>
Therefore I haue intreated him along with vs<br>
To watch the minutes of this night,<br>
That if againe this apparition come,<br>
He may approoue our eyes, and speake to it.<br>

Hor. Tut, t'will not appeare.

2\. Sit downe I pray, and let vs once againe<br>
Assaile your eares that are so fortified,<br>
What we haue two nights seene.

Hor. Wel, sit we downe, and let vs heare Bernardo speake of this.

2\. Last night of al, when yonder starre that's west­-<br>
ward from the pole, had made his course to<br>
Illumine that part of heauen. Where now it burnes,<br>
The bell then towling one.

> Enter Ghost.

Mar. Breake off your talke, see where it comes againe.

2\. In the same figure like the King that's dead,

Mar. Thou art a scholler, speake to it Horatio.

2\. Lookes it not like the king?

Hor. Most like, it horrors mee with feare and wonder.

2\. It would be spoke to.

Mar. Question it Horatio.

Hor. What art thou that thus vsurps the state, in<br>
Which the Maiestie of buried Denmarke did sometimes<br>
Walke? By heauen I charge thee speake.

Mar. It is offended.

> exit Ghost.

2\. See, it stalkes away.

Hor. Stay, speake, speake, by heauen I charge thee speake.

Mar. Tis gone and makes no answer.

2\. How now Horatio, you tremble and looke pale,<br>
Is not this something more than fantasie?<br>
What thinke you on't?

Hor. Afore my God, I might not this beleeue, without<br>
the sensible and true auouch of my owne eyes.

Mar. Is it not like the King?

Hor. As thou art to thy selfe,<br>
Such was the very armor he had on,<br>
When he the ambitious Norway combated.<br>
So frownd he once, when in an angry parle<br>
He smot the sleaded pollax on the yce,<br>
Tis strange.

Mar. Thus twice before, and iump at this dead hower,<br>
With Marshall stalke he passed through our watch.

Hor. In what particular to worke, I know not,<br>
But in the thought and scope of my opinion,<br>
This bodes some strange eruption to the state.

Mar. Good, now sit downe, and tell me he that knowes<br>
Why this same strikt and most obseruant watch,<br>
So nightly toyles the subiect of the land,<br>
And why such dayly cost of brazen Cannon<br>
And forraine marte, for implements of warre,<br>
Why such impresse of ship‐writes, whose sore taske<br>
Does not diuide the sunday from the weeke:<br>
What might be toward that this sweaty march<br>
Doth make the night ioynt labourer with the day,<br>
Who is't that can informe me?

Hor. Mary that can I, at least the whisper goes so,<br>
Our late King, who as you know was by Forten­<br>
Brasse of Norway,
Thereto prickt on by a most emulous cause, dared to<br>
The combate, in which our valiant Hamlet,<br>
For so this side of our knowne world esteemed him,<br>
Did slay this Fortenbrasse,<br>
Who by a seale compact well ratified, by law<br>
And heraldrie, did forfeit with his life all those<br>
His lands which he stoode seazed of by the conqueror,<br>
Against the which a moity competent,<br>
Was gaged by our King:<br>
Now sir, yong Fortenbrasse,<br>
Of inapproued mettle hot and full,<br>
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there,<br>
Sharkt vp a sight of lawlesse Resolutes<br>
For food and diet to some enterprise,<br>
That hath a stomacke in't: and this (I take it) is the<br>
Chiefe head and ground of this our watch.